Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
Original Rip By mstoll
Resync/Corrections By Chuck
The 1860s was a decade...
...in which one of the most
terrible civil wars in history...
...was to begin and end.
But far from the bloody fields
of Gettysburg and Shiloh...
...changes which were
to alter forever...
...the face of the American West
had already begun.
Telegraphs were spinning
a web of voices...
...across the Great Plains.
And railroads were pushing steel fingers...
...into the heart of the wilderness.
Along their rights of way.
new trails were being broken.
New towns were born overnight.
And settlers by the tens
of thousands poured westward...
...and began putting plows to the land...
...the Indian considered his birthright.
The inevitable happened.
Two totally divergent cultures.
Indian and white...
...met on a collision course.
The white man demanded
his Manifest Destiny...
...the right to take the land he wanted.
And the Army began
the subjugation of the red man...
...with a savagery that
plunged this nation...
...into a series of Indian wars...
...that were to last more
than a quarter of a century.
How many would you say?
Oh. about 30 of them.
I'll ride on down.
tell them you're coming in to talk.
I didn't come here to talk.
Form skirmish lines!
What do you think you're doing?
My orders are to attack.
I don't give a damn
what your orders are. colonel.
There's no need for a fight here.
Those Arapaho down there
are starving.
Besides. they've got women
and children with them.
Nothing they can do but surrender.
My orders from General Connor are explicit.
I'm not to accept surrender on any terms.
And I'm to kill every hostile
over the age of 12.
You lied to me. Caine.
I didn't have any choice.
I was told you wouldn't guide us
if you knew my orders.
- Sergeant...
- Caine...
...you give the order for a massacre.
I'll gut you belly to brisket.
Arrest this man!
Knock him down!
Kill him. sir?
Shoot!
Bugler!
Fire at will!
Cut them off from the horses!
Take no prisoners!
Sergeant? Somebody on foot
approaching main gate.
Here.
They haven't had a thing
to eat in two days.
Feed them.
Feed them!
Caine's outfit come in here?
Only the wounded. sir.
Caine?
He was among the wounded.
You can't...
Where's Colonel Caine?
Zeb?
I want that butcher's scalp.
Where is he?
He took an arrow in the throat
in that Arapaho raid.
He's dead. Zeb.
Deserters. often for reasons
totally unrelated to cowardice...
...have plagued armies since wars began.
And American armies have been no exception.
During the Civil War
there were 200.000 deserters...
...from Union forces alone...
...and more than 76.000 were hunted down.
For the most part. provost marshals...
...who continued to search
for runaways after the war ended...
...were decent and dedicated men.
But for a few. the hunt was often
the prelude to a kill.
Micah Sloane?
Who are you?
You've got a bad memory. Sloane.
Maybe you'd remember better
if I was still in uniform.
Captain Grey!
Drop the gun belt.
You gonna kill me?
I'd sooner see you hang...
...but it'll save me time
if I bury you here.
It's up to you.
Mind if I get my hat and coat?
Get them.
Uncle Zeb!
Hey. about time somebody's
stirring around here.
Sun's been up over an hour.
Uncle Zeb.
We've been expecting you ever
since we heard the war was over.
Ow. Easy there. Luke.
I got a few stitches ain't healed up yet.
What happened?
Oh. it's a long story.
How long you been back?
Last time I was here.
you were still on the run.
Eh. nobody's come looking for me...
...so Ma figured it was all right
for me to come home.
How long you been back?
Oh. a couple months now. I guess.
Well. I'd still keep an eye peeled.
How's your Ma?
Eh. she's still working on the principle...
...that idleness is a mortal sin.
Well. it looks like it's paid off.
Things are looking good around here.
Yeah. Hey. wait here a second.
will you. Uncle Zeb?
Sure.
Yeah. I'll go fetch her.
Hey. Ma? There's something
out here you ought to see.
I'm busy. Luke.
Well. Ma. you should see this.
In a minute.
All right.
I just thought you'd like to know
there's a bear in your vegetable garden.
Bear?
Zeb!
Katie.
Oh. Zeb. how are you?
Oh. fine. fine. Kate.
You look tired.
Well. I had a long ride
from Fort Kearny. you know...
...a few stops along the way...
...saloons and sporting houses and such.
I bet they know you by sight
and first name in every one.
Say. I think it's good
for you living out here.
You know. if I'd said that a while ago.
it'd have caused a hell of a ruckus.
Zeb. you mind your language
while you're here.
- Uncle Zeb!
Uncle Zeb!
How are you?
All right now. your Uncle Zeb's
had a long trip. and he's tired.
Now. go inside and get dressed.
- We'll talk later.
- He just got here.
There's so much to talk about. Come on.
We'll talk later. girls.
Josh. Go ahead.
Okay. Ma.
Oh. Kate. you've... You've brought
this place a long ways.
Is something wrong. Zeb? Are you hurt?
Oh. nothing. Nothing particular.
Zeb?
I got shot in a skirmish. Kate.
Where?
Oh. at the Black River.
Army surgeon got a bullet out of me.
The stitches just ain't healed.
You rode all the way from Fort Kearny
in that condition?
The Army and I ain't exactly seeing
eye-to-eye these days. Kate.
I've had about all their hospitality
I can stand.
You come on in. Zeb.
You're gonna eat. and then
you're gonna rest. Come on.
Oh. sounds good.
Still bossy. Ha. ha. ha!
Never seen kids with that kind of grit.
Had to walk more than 60 miles...
...a lot of it through snow.
because the only way to the fort...
...was over the high passes.
It was freezing at night.
The last two days they didn't even have
nothing to eat.
But not one of them quit.
Babies cried some...
...because we had nothing at all
to feed them.
But the others. there wasn't
a one of them that even whined.
What'll happen to the children. Uncle Zeb?
Well. I reckon they'll take them
on some Indian reservation. honey.
What kind of man can give an order...
...to kill everyone over the age of 12?
A man called Brigadier
General Patrick E. Connor.
How do they expect the children to survive?
Near as I can figure. they didn't.
Makes you ashamed to be a white man.
Now the Indians.
they done things differently.
Now. they...
They used to fight each other...
...and have wars long before any of us
ever come into this country...
...but they did it by rules of honor.
Scalping was honor?
Well. there was a couple northern tribes
used to do ritual scalping...
...but it took the white man
to teach the Indian...
...how to make scalping a way of life.
We should realize
how fortunate we are.
I think we should give thanks.
Jessie.
Our father who art in heaven...
...we thank thee
from the bottom of our hearts...
...for bringing us all together
this day in peace and love.
Amen.
Mama?
Mama. you always said
that when Uncle Zeb and Luke got back...
...we'd all go on to Oregon.
Well. we didn't leave
Virginia to settle here.
It was your father's dream
to go on to Oregon.
Laura's right. Ma.
You always said when the family
got together again we'd go.
It sure looks like we're together.
Well. Zeb?
Well. Oregon's still a long ways off...
...and the hardest part's ahead of us.
It's always been a long way off.
Is it gonna get any easier later on?
No.
It ain't gonna get no easier.
And like Josh here says...
...we are all together.
Then we're going?
Kate?
Oregon.
Oregon!
Sixty-two. 63. 64. 65 cents.
You drive a hard bargain. Mrs. Macahan.
You've got yourself two fine sows. Mr.
Jones...
...and a healthy litter
and another due any day now.
When do you figure to pull out?
Soon.
I wish you all the best.
Thank you. Mr. Jones.
Thank you. boys.
Have a safe trip.
Well. how much did you get?
$11.65
Ma. you're a hallelujah.
We're gonna need every penny of it.
Hey. Ma?
Looks like you got
another customer.
Good morning. ma'am.
Morning.
- You must be Mrs. Macahan.
- I am.
Nice day. isn't it?
Twenty-two years old. a little over 6 feet.
light brown hair...
You'd be Luke Macahan.
Drop the gun belt. boy.
What do you think you're doing?
I'm sorry to inform you. ma'am.
but your son's under arrest...
...for desertion from
the United States Army.
Now. this is our land.
and you're trespassing.
I want you off of it.
Battle of Shiloh. April 7. 1862.
Name's Grey.
Captain Grey.
I'm a representative of the United States
provost marshal's office.
Drop the gun belt. boy.
I told you. boy. drop it.
Now let's get something
straight. son.
I'm gonna take you to trial.
If you give me any trouble...
...I'll bury you.
Speaking of burials. mister...
...one twitch and it'll be yours.
Whoever you are...
...you're interfering with the law.
Name's Zebulon Macahan...
...uncle to him.
You move that scatter gun.
I'll empty that saddle.
Aiding a deserter's
a criminal offense. Macahan.
Now are you gonna
step down or eat dirt?
Now. Zeb.
you're not helping Luke.
Kate. I know this man.
He's built himself...
...a reputation as a bounty hunter.
He's no better than a hired killer.
Drop the gun.
Now step down.
This side.
Get rid of the gun belt.
I'm gonna say it
once more. Macahan...
...just so we're clear.
You're interfering with an officer...
...of the United States Army
in the execution of his duty.
Mister. I ain't got no words...
...to tell you my opinion
of the United States Army...
...and everything it stands for
right now. including you.
You better talk to him. lady.
Right now your son's
facing prison.
If this goes any further.
it could be the hangman.
Zeb?
If you let Luke ride out
with this man. Kate...
...you'll never see him alive again.
Now. town's that way 15 miles. mister.
Start walking.
And if I don't?
I'll drop you right there.
You'll hang. Macahan.
You've got till the count of three. One.
Zeb. you can't. He's the law.
Two.
Zeb.
- Three.
- Zeb!
Don't! Uncle Zeb. don't!
Don't!
Put that knife away.
Do you hear me?
Put it away.
I won't let you kill a man
on my place.
Now get out of here.
Mr. Grey.
Just be thankful you're still alive.
Now. go on.
There'll be another time. Macahan.
Let go of me. boy.
You're a fool. Kate.
You were really
gonna kill that man.
Damn right I was.
Well. did you think
I'd stand by...
...while you cut a man
to pieces?
What you've done
is let that man get away...
...so he's got another chance
to come back and kill your son.
Think he's gonna quit?
The man's a killer.
He's gotta be stopped.
Even if he's
an officer of the law?
It don't matter.
You think Luke was gonna
give up without a fight?
I don't know what
Luke would have done.
And neither do you.
The hell I don't!
He's a Macahan. ain't he?
You leaving. Luke?
Yes. sir.
Thought I'd wait till dark
just in case.
Makes sense.
I don't figure Grey will be back...
...till that arm of his
gets patched up...
...but you never know.
The sooner you get out
of this country...
...the safer you're gonna be.
Here.
I'd like to ride
along with you. Luke...
...but I figure I'm better off
to stay here...
...and look after your ma
and the kids...
...especially after what happened.
Yeah.
Well. I can take care
of myself. Uncle Zeb.
You can if you know
what you're up against. boy.
Sit.
Luke. that man Grey's
a real bloodhound.
He's gonna stay on your trail
till hell freezes over.
There's only one way
you can stay ahead of him.
That's to get up
into the high country...
...and keep moving.
That way you'll keep
ahead of him...
...till I can figure out a way
to get out of this.
How long you figure
that's gonna take?
Well. I don't know...
...but you can't
keep running forever.
As long as you're running...
...your ma ain't gonna budge
off this homestead.
No. No. thanks. I ain't
much of a drinking man.
Then you ain't no Macahan. boy.
I never acquired a taste for it.
Don't say that. Why. your pa
would roll over in his grave...
...to hear you talking
like that.
Your grandpa too.
Why. either one of them...
...could've drunk me
under the table.
Pa?
Sure.
Luke. your pa...
before he married your ma...
...why. he was the biggest
hell-raiser in seven counties.
He used to take me with him.
I was only a 14. 15 year old.
Why. your grandpa.
he used to thump on him regular
...for leading me astray.
Hard to picture pa
as a hell-raiser.
Well. he was a lot of things
to a lot of people. Luke.
A good brother to me...
...a good father
to you and the kids...
...a good husband to Kate.
Gotta ask you something. boy.
Your ma...
She told me you were
with Tim when he died.
She didn't say
how you found him.
It was an accident.
I was in Tennessee
looking for him...
...when the Battle of Shiloh
started.
Some Yankees who were
trapped behind Rebel lines...
...grabbed me and put me
in a uniform.
I got no stake in this war.
It's a hell of a place
to be a neutral.
What's your name?
Macahan.
Luke Macahan.
You believe in slavery. Macahan?
No. sir. but I...
That no longer makes you
a neutral for the time being.
I don't believe in war either.
Neither do I.
About. uh...
...Billing's size.
wouldn't you say. sergeant?
I fought most of that day...
...and all of the next.
And I was wounded.
I stumbled into a field hospital.
A hospital.
There weren't any doctors
or any medicine...
...just a lot of men
all shot to pieces...
...and a few rolls of bandages.
I don't know
how long I'd been there...
...when I saw them bringing in
another man.
Pa?
Pa.
What are you doing here?
I come to find you. Pa.
What?
Your mother?
She's fine. Pa.
She's fine.
Everybody's fine.
He's dead. boy.
I buried him there under a tree.
And I walked away from the war.
That's why Grey is after me.
That's a damn fool way
for a good man to die.
I thank you
for telling me. Luke.
The Army had no cause sending
anybody after you.
You didn't volunteer.
and you wasn't recruited.
You were shanghaied
into the uniform...
...of a dead man.
Your ma was wrong keeping me
from killing that bloodsucker.
You know. I've been thinking
a lot about what you said...
...about having to kill anyone
that comes looking for you.
When does it stop. Uncle Zeb?
I mean. if you'd
have killed Grey...
...they'd only send
somebody else.
Maybe somebody harder than Grey.
Luke. they don't come
no harder than Grey.
That's what I've been
trying to tell you.
You gotta learn that. boy.
if you want to stay alive.
Now you think you've been
running from the law...
...these last three years.
Well. after what's
happened today...
...it's gonna be a lot worse.
You're in for a hard.
lonesome time...
...but if you've got the stuff
in you I think you have...
...you're gonna make out.
Yes. sir.
Luke.
You know. it won't be all bad.
You're gonna be riding
the high country.
If you're lucky. you're gonna
get to taste something...
...few men have ever known.
We used to call it
the shining times.
Shining times?
It's kind of hard to explain...
...but when it happens to you.
you'll know it.
You won't ever be
the same again.
You'll ride for days
alone up there...
...in country that's so big
it'll scare you.
And all of a sudden
some morning...
...at the top of the rise
there it'll be...
...a mountain or a valley
or a meadow...
...no white man's
ever seen before.
You'll feel the breath
catching in your throat.
The mountains are holding you
in the palm of their hand.
The melting snows
are dropping waterfalls...
...into lakes
that are so blue...
...it'll make your eyes ache
just to look at them.
Flowers...
...wild and thick.
moving to the pines.
You'll know you're part
of something so overpowering...
...there ain't no words
to describe it.
You felt all that?
Ain't a mountain man alive
ain't felt that...
...more than once. boy.
Hell. that's what keeps all of us
coming back to high lonesome.
Luke. one more thing.
Don't trust nobody.
You've got a price
on your head now.
You're gonna find out
what some people will do...
...for a few dollars.
Keep your powder dry.
It's awful quiet in here.
Jessie. it's not the time.
Go on. Jessie.
I think it's just what
we need right now.
I'm sorry. Ma.
You know I don't want to go.
Luke. I don't want you to go.
any of us.
Ma. don't you understand?
I don't have any choice.
Uncle Zeb is right
about that provost marshal.
He's gonna come back.
And when he does.
Uncle Zeb is gonna kill him...
...or I will.
You will?
It's become so easy to talk
about killing. hasn't it?
Luke?
Are you ready to kill a man?
If it means staying alive.
Ma. yes.
It's different out here.
It's not like it was
back in Virginia.
You're talking just like
your Uncle Zeb.
No.
No. it's something I learned
back there in Missouri...
...when those men tried lynching me
for stealing a horse that I didn't steal.
Well. the difference is you
weren't trying to kill a man.
No. Ma. you're wrong.
I was trying.
I was just so scared
and stiff I missed.
Ma. don't make this any harder
than it already is.
I just can't stay here without
making everything worse.
You know that.
Whew. Oh. it sure is hot.
ain't it?
What do you say we
just put this up for a while...
...and head on down to the swimming
hole and cool off a little?
Ma would have our scalps if we
went off without finishing this.
Besides.
I don't think any of us...
...feel very much like swimming.
Uncle Zeb.
You know.
when it gets hot like this...
...it sure reminds me
of the high country in the fall...
...with the snow sitting down
through the...
Through the trees.
I remember one time
up in Montana.
Well. it was Indian summer...
...and we had this early freeze.
Froze real hard.
You girls listening?
You see. we had this
sudden freeze real fast.
There was a little lake
outside there...
...a little lake. and it was
covered over with ducks...
...that had been resting there
overnight on their way south.
Well. I seen them ducks.
and I says to myself:
"Zeb. you're gonna have yourself
a roast duck breakfast."
Well. I aimed and fired.
You wouldn't believe
what happened.
What happened?
Well. them ducks.
they took off...
...took the whole lake
with them.
They took the lake with them?
Why. sure. honey. See.
that cold spell come on so fast...
...that it just froze that lake
solid around them ducks' feet.
And when they lifted off...
...they pulled that lake
clean out of the ground...
...and they flew it
to the next county.
Kate. this has got to stop.
I haven't even seen a smile
out of anybody in three days.
Smile? You expect
us to be happy...
...while Luke is out there
running for his life?
Woman. we're not helping
Luke any...
...by going around here
feeling sorry for ourselves.
We gotta do something.
What do you expect us to do?
We can pack up and start heading
for Oregon like we planned.
Why. it's not good for the rest of these
kids to sit around here rotting...
...just because their brother's
on the run.
I told you before. Zeb.
and I'll tell you again.
We are not moving. As painful
as it is for us out here...
...we're staying in case
Luke needs us.
Woman. you are the stubbornest
human being I ever met.
Now what gives you the right
to come here...
...and tell us what we ought to do?
What have you done
for this family...
...since you brought us here
from Virginia? Nothing.
You've been up
in the high country...
...smoking the peace pipe
with the Indians.
We've been breaking our backs
trying to make a life here.
At least you got one thing
straight. I ain't no farmer...
...any more than my brother
Timothy was.
You kept him chained to a plow
every day of his life...
...for 20 years when you knew
he was dying to come west.
How dare you tell me
how Timothy felt.
You haven't the faintest idea
of what goes on...
...between a decent man and woman
who really love each other.
Have you ever
really loved a woman?
All you know is animal lust...
...on a buffalo robe with some
Indian squaw.
Let me tell you something. lady.
There's a lot more animal lust
in all of us. including you...
...than you'd like to admit.
Ma!
Ma. Ma.
Whoa.
Uncle Zeb's in the barn.
He's saddling up.
He says he's leaving.
Well. we can survive without
your Uncle Zeb.
No. he says he's gonna
try and find Luke...
...and bring him back here.
Finish plowing. Laura.
I don't understand. Zeb.
Luke would be in danger
if you brought him back here.
Kate. Luke's life is gonna
be in danger wherever he is...
...as long as Grey's after him...
...except maybe
for a while right now.
Now?
In the beginning
a man on the run...
...can always keep ahead
of the man that's trailing him.
The problem is sooner or later
every man gets tired of running.
It may take a few weeks.
may take months.
When it happens.
he gets careless.
That's what Grey is counting on.
He's gonna stay on Luke's trail...
...and he'll catch up to him.
Luke will fight him.
and Grey will kill him.
What can we do?
There's only one thing
we can do.
I tried to tell you earlier...
...but we got to grinding
on each other so hard...
...I couldn't get it out.
I gotta get Luke
and bring him back here...
...so we can all go on
to Oregon together.
- Can you find him?
- I can find him.
I know a few tricks to keep Grey
a week or so behind us.
By the time he gets here.
we'll be gone.
What if Grey catches up
to us on the trail?
I just hope this time
you'll stay out of the way.
So we're back to that.
Kill or be killed?
Is that right?
Any of us is capable
of killing. Kate...
...if it's a matter of survival.
Even you.
If killing would save the life
of one of your children...
...you'd kill.
You're wrong. Zeb.
There are other ways.
Lady. one of these days you're
liable to find out different.
In the wake
of the Pilgrims...
...who crossed an ocean
and settled a wilderness...
...in search of religious freedom...
...came dozens of other
religious orders:
Quakers and Shakers.
Bryanites and Dunkers...
...Calvinists and Huguenots...
...all seeking sanctuary.
It is one of the tragic ironies
of our history...
...that these gentle
and peaceful folk...
...merely because
they were different...
...frequently found
not the freedom they sought...
...but a persecution
as ugly and relentless...
...as any they had known...
...in the countries from which
they had fled.
Hey. boys...
...we got us a passel of blackbirds
this time. Just look at them.
Uncle Jacob.
Whoo! Hey. will you look
at what we got here.
Come on. woman. Somebody else
I want you to meet.
Now. ain't nobody
gonna hurt you.
No. Joshua.
We must not.
I don't want to be among you.
Among me?
She knows nothing of men.
Well. sure she don't.
living with the likes of you.
Now. you got any hair
under that bonnet?
Oh. I'd sure like to see it.
It is not permitted...
...for a woman in public
to display her hair.
You shut your face!
You gonna take off that bonnet
or do I have to take it off for you?
I cannot.
Well. I can.
Take away your hands.
You heard him.
Now undo it.
Undo it.
Do not make her do this.
You say anything else. I'm
gonna shoot you in the mouth!
My father has told you
it is not permitted.
Why. sure it is.
Let me show you. girl.
Let me show you.
Please! Please. no!
Come on up here
and take my hat off.
I'll take your head off if you
don't get out of here. mister!
Well. you're talking yourself
into a big mistake.
Now get on them ponies
and get out of here.
Get!
Get the girl on the wagon. sir.
Now. drop those guns.
Drop them!
And get out of here.
Well. what about Willy?
He'll never miss you.
Now. get out of here!
He is dead.
We must take the body into town
and deliver it to the sheriff.
You must come with us
and tell what happened.
I can't.
I don't understand.
Tell the sheriff what you saw.
For sure he's not
going to blame you.
You can kill a man
and just ride on?
I have to.
I'm sorry.
Erika...
...you and your brother
go back to the bruderhof.
We'll take care of this.
Yes. father.
God with you. father.
God with you. child.
Got him!
I blowed him clean off his horse!
Let's get out of here
before somebody comes.
Erika. it's him!
No. Joshua. stay here.
What has happened?
Those boys I ran off...
I should have figured
on their saddle guns.
You could be bleeding to death.
Look...
...I want you to do
something for me.
My name is Macahan...
...Luke Macahan.
My Ma's name is Kate.
She lives...
...near Sharp's Town.
on the Platte.
Get a message to her...
...and tell her what happened.
If I'm dead...
Please. do not talk anymore.
I will see to it if need be.
But first. I'm taking you
to the Bruderhof.
Figure that to be
a waste of time. miss.
That is up to God. not you.
Joshua. help me!
Bishop Benjamin!
Father Elias!
Someone help me. please!
Mother Tice!
Erika. who is this man?
I found him on the road. Bishop.
He's called Macahan.
He has been gunshot.
We are bound to help him.
It is our law.
Erika. fetch Mother Tice.
Have her bring pliers
for a bullet.
Take him inside.
He has no bullet.
it has passed through.
But he has lost much blood.
I cannot say that he will live.
We will pray God that he does.
You will care for him.
Mother Tice?
All that I am able. child.
But I'm in the middle of midwife
for Mrs. Brand. poor thing.
I will tend him.
Erika. you are unmarried.
How will it look?
It be fine. Mother Tice.
It be just fine.
You mean you never stayed
to see if he was dead?!
Well. there was somebody
coming. Pa!
We was afraid they'd see us!
How do I know you ain't
telling a lie about shooting him?
How do I know you didn't tuck
your tails 'tweenst your legs...
...run like a scared dog
after he killed your brother?
Well. Pa. I swear on Willy's grave
I hit him square.
I knocked him clean
off his horse!
- Now. ain't that right. Jake?
- Ah. it's true. Pa.
He was lying right there
in the dirt.
Then where's his body?
Uh. well...
...eh. somebody must've took it. Pa.
"Somebody must've took it. Pa!"
Who?!
The sheriff ain't got it!
Nobody's seen it!
Maybe somebody around here
collects corpses...
...stacks them around his house
like cordwood.
You reckon that's it. Charlie?
No. Pa. no!
I'll tell you why you didn't
find him.
Because he ain't dead.
that's why.
Somebody must have
some reason for hiding him.
Wait a minute.
Them blackbirds. Them blackbirds
the ones that found him!
No. that can't be. Pa.
It was them that brought
Willy's body in to the sheriff.
They'd have said something
if they found that other fella.
Yeah. he's right. Pa.
You know how they are
about shooting and such.
Hell. they didn't even raise
a frown when...
...when we were teasing that girl!
Now...
...if that's the truth.
there's only one thing left...
...he's hurt and he's crawled off
somewhere to lick his wounds.
If he's hurt as bad as you think he is.
he ain't gone far. neither.
Now. I want him found!
I want y'all boys to go search
every cabin. every gully...
...every shack until you find
the man that killed your brother!
Well. we'll find him. Pa!
Yeah!
If he's dead. I wanna know it!
But if he's alive...
...wouldn't that be pretty?
I never figured hell for angels.
Maybe I'm not dead.
But you'll be fine.
Just fine.
Considering I never expected
to wake up at all. I guess I must be.
For two days we did not think
you would live.
But the last two days.
you've slept like a lamb.
I've been out for four days?
On Thursday you were among us
for a few minutes...
...and took some soup from
Mother Tice.
You do not remember?
Heh. no.
But I remember you.
My name is Erika...
...but you must call me
Miss Hanks.
Yes. Miss Hanks.
I will get you some food.
Where's my gun?
I do not know.
There was only this.
Those men find out I'm not dead.
they're gonna come looking for me.
- They will not come here.
- Why not?
This is the Bruderhof.
The what?
The bruderhof.
Except it is not really
a bruderhof yet.
Just a town where no one lived...
...and we stopped here because
many of our people were ill.
Are you gonna stay here?
It has not yet been decided.
But we are building a church.
And if we stay. we must also
build a wall to keep the world out.
It is the way of the Simonites.
Simonites?
That what you're called?
Yes. after Simon Peter.
You have read the New Testament?
My ma used to read the Bible
to us every night.
Mr. Macahan. the Elders...
How did you know my name?
When I found you...
...you asked that the word of your
death be sent to your mother.
Did you?
No. You did not die. praise God.
Praise God.
What were you saying about
the Elders?
The Elders held a council...
...try and decide if a man
of violence...
...should be allowed to
remain among us.
I... I'm not a man of violence.
You killed a man.
Yeah. for trying to kill me.
And I'd do it again
if it came to it.
You do not understand.
It is not important why you shot.
only that you did.
We do not hold with violence
in any form.
We do not fight.
We do not resist.
No matter what?
No matter what.
You mean those two Simonite
men on the road...
My father Elam.
and my Uncle Jacob.
Your father and your uncle?
You mean they would have
stood by and let those men...
...have their way with you?
Yes.
Well. how do you feel
about that?
I agree with them.
But how could any man
stand by and let that happen?
It is our way.
God's law is our law.
Scripture tells us:
"And if any man sue thee
at the law. and take thy coat...
...let him have thy cloak. also."
We take God at his word.
Mr. Macahan.
You take God at your peril.
Miss Hanks.
A man could do much worse.
Why. if everyone thought that way...
...well. there wouldn't be anyone
around to keep law and order.
If everyone practiced that...
...there would be no need
for anyone to keep law and order.
You haven't told me
what the Elders decided.
What everyone knew
they would decide in the beginning.
You will remain here
until you are better...
...and then you must leave.
Well. I sure hope they let you
look after me until that happens.
It is my hope. too.
Mr. Macahan.
Generations of Americans...
...have viewed the Indian
as either the noble Red Man...
...a pure and innocent
child of nature...
...as uncomplicated as the
wilderness in which he lived...
...or as a half-naked
and barbaric savage...
...whose cruelty knew no bounds.
Neither concept is true.
The Indian.
like any man or nation...
...was a mixture of many qualities.
Before his lands were usurped
and his people decimated...
...he was a loyal friend
to the white man.
The Pilgrims survived a winter
of starvation...
...thanks to the kindness
of the Indian.
And Lewis and Clark. dying.
were rescued by the Nez Perce...
...but just as the white man dealt
in deceit with the Indian...
...so not every overture of apparent
friendship by the Indian...
...toward the settler could be
taken at face value.
Pretty lady...
...we come to water our horses.
You're always welcome
to our water.
Where is your man. pretty lady?
He's out hunting. chief.
Strange. I never see your man.
He's... gone most of the time.
He does not like to farm. huh?
He's very much like the Shoshone.
he's a hunter.
It is not good to leave a woman and
young ones alone in this country.
You need a man. pretty lady.
The Arapaho are near.
We cannot watch over you always.
We are not the eagle in the sky.
You need a man.
This is Mountain-Is-Long.
Good fighter. Good hunter.
Good man. All man.
Why. I know. Chief. but I...
Ride for pretty lady. Ride!
Hyah!
Yah! Yah!
See! Good fighter! Good man!
Plenty babies! Good!
I know. chief. But I told you.
I have a man.
Macahan? Macahan good.
Macahan fine. good. smart.
But not man for woman!
His home is there.
He not stay long in house.
Oh. not Zeb.
Another long knife.
A warrior.
A very good warrior.
Where is this good warrior.
pretty lady?
He's... He's on his way now.
Any day.
Next sun.
Maybe two suns.
We go hunt now.
Come back. see this long knife.
Goodbye pretty lady.
Pretty girls.
Mother.
do you think he believed you?
Do you?
I don't know.
I had to say something.
He's a very determined man.
I don't know.
That mountain-Is-Long
looked strong as a fort.
And plenty babies!
A kid!
Boy. you know how close you come
to getting your throat slit?
What the hell
is the matter with you?
I'm... I'm sorry. mister.
I was chasing a deer
and I thought your horse was...
Well. you damned near killed
my horse!
Not to mention me!
You near shot off the best part of me!
I didn't mean to. mister.
It was an accident.
I ain't done with you yet!
Now don't budge until I am!
Oh. easy boy.
Easy. now.
He pulled a tendon.
He'll ride again.
but it's gonna be a day or two.
You're lucky. boy.
If I had to put him
out of his misery...
...I'd be tempted to do the same
for you.
What were you doing
skulking around here anyway?
Any questions to be asked.
I'll do the asking.
- You live around here?
- Why?
Because I need somewhere
to tend to my animal.
Not to mention myself.
Come on. get up
and start walking. Come on.
What's your name. boy?
Give me an answer
before you get tromped.
Macahan.
Cowboy. range war. gunfighter.
The words were almost unknown to
the settlers of the northern plains...
...where the great cattle
drives up the good night...
...and the Chisholm Trails
had not yet begun.
But from time to time. a strange
and unique breed of men...
...who lived and died by the gun...
...drifted north out of the vast
plains of Texas.
Now. get a move on.
we ain't got all day.
Josh is forever promising catfish.
Next time he cooks
his own breakfast.
How can you eat those things.
Jessie?
They're so ugly.
Out here you appreciate
what you get. Laura.
Well. it's not for me. Jessie.
I was born a female...
...a feminine girl. and that's
what I am to stay!
Slopping pigs. and uh.
eating catfish...
...and staying bent over
a hot stove all day...
It's just not for me.
That's what you're willing
to settle for.
Laura. I want the same things
you want.
But they're just gonna have to wait.
Besides. doesn't look as though you
have much choice. does it?
Jessie! Jessie. bring the rifle.
It's Josh!
Mister. I wanna know
why my son's on foot...
...and you're poking him like sheep.
You tell her. boy.
And tell her straight.
I lost all the hide I can stand to
your family's marksmanship.
Well. Josh?
I was tracking a deer
and it went into some trees.
I saw something moving and...
...I thought it was the deer.
You mean you came close
to shooting this man?
He done a might better
than come close. ma'am.
Shouldn't have been messing around
there anyway. Ma.
It was a mistake. and I'm sorry.
He just knocked a little bark
off me is all.
It's my horse. though.
It come up lame.
Put the horses in the barn. Josh.
Wait a minute. Ma.
- I don't trust him.
- Why?
Coming here. he asked
too many questions.
I didn't mean no harm. ma'am.
If I did. that boy'd be
back there gathering ants.
Sorry about the rifle.
Don't ever apologize about
doing the sensible thing. ma'am.
Anderson's the name.
What are you gawking at?
That man. he's handsome.
I apologize for Josh.
He's a good boy.
Well. if you say so.
He's your son.
Did he say he nicked you?
Well. the first shot
just blew a kiss.
But the second one did sting some.
Well. maybe I could put
some. ah...
...salve where the bullet hit you.
I'm afraid I'd have to know
you some better...
...before I could ask you
to do that.
Well... The medicine's in the house.
You can put it on.
You're welcome to spend the day.
Mr. Anderson.
I mean it's plain your horse isn't
ready to travel.
Either are you.
Thank you. ma'am.
Evening. Louie.
Well. I see you got fed.
Liver! I hate liver!
They know I hate liver. sheriff.
They do it on purpose.
Well. Louie. maybe it's just their way
of trying to keep you out of here.
You know. you spend more time
in this place than I do.
The very reason you ought to
treat me better.
This is cruel and
unusual punishment.
Come on. Louie.
Oh! I forgot!
Somebody was looking for you.
A friend of yours.
Who?
He told me his name and I forget...
...big fella. nine feet tall.
All dressed up in
buckskin with fringes on it.
Yeah. Zeb Macahan.
Yeah! Yeah. that's it.
That's the one.
Biggest man I ever seen.
Been looking for you since noon...
...said it was important.
Well. where is he?
That's terrible. I never heard
anything like that in my whole life.
Well. uh. if I'm lying.
I'm dying.
Now old Mormon Jake.
you know he got to the bend...
...at the trail and he turned around.
figuring how lucky he was...
...to still have his head.
you know...
...and he looked back and there's
that old bear...
...standing in the middle
of the trail...
...and he was grinning from
ear to ear...
...and he's waving at old Jake
like that to come forward.
Come on. bartender. This is a
honest-to God Arapaho scalp.
Took no more than a month ago when
we wiped out them hostiles at Black River.
You know. old Jake.
he always figured that...
...the bear had done fell
plumb in love with him.
Oh. Zeb. let's you and me
get out of here...
...and go someplace where
we can be alone. huh?
Well. now.
that sounds good. Delilah.
But what about these other
pretty ladies here?
Oh. that's okay. honey.
we'll just all come with you.
Sounds good.
Bartender. this Arapaho scalp...
...is worth four bottles.
but we're gonna offer it to you two.
Sergeant. I'm gonna tell you again...
...we don't deal in no scalps.
And them that does is the...
Is what. bartender?
Is dead!
Well. well. if it ain't the
Indian lover. Mr. Macahan.
We thought we took care of you
at the Black River.
Did you take that scalp?
Why not? It were not good
to the woman I got it from.
I wanted that colonel's scalp.
mister...
...but I'm gonna heap the Arapaho...
...but I reckon yours will do.
Ah!
Sorry. Zeb.
I just couldn't let you do that.
Mama. why don't you ask
Mr. Anderson to be your man?
What?
The man you told Claw about.
Maybe if Mr. Anderson were just
to stay here a couple of days...
I couldn't ask a stranger
to do something like that.
Laura could.
She thinks he's handsome.
Now. listen. girls...
...I don't want anyone telling Mr.
Anderson about Claw and his braves.
Remember that.
Josh. tell Mr. Anderson
supper's on the table.
Ma. I think you're making...
Josh.
Yes. ma'am.
Mrs. Macahan...
...I haven't eaten anything
like this since...
...well. I can't remember how long.
Salt pork and refried beans...
...that's about as close to
real food as I ever get.
I'm glad you enjoyed it.
Mr. Anderson.
where are you from?
No place in particular.
I move around a lot.
What kind of work do you do?
Most anything that comes to mind.
Meat hunting
and uh. prospecting.
I'll even punch a cow
or wrangle a horse if I have to.
The fact is. this is about as
peaceable an evening as I've had.
And pleasant too.
Real pleasant.
And...
...hard as it is to say...
...I best be pushing on.
Oh. well. Josh says your horses
aren't ready to travel yet.
You're in no condition to travel.
either.
I can't really argue with you there.
ma'am. but...
...I've already stayed on
longer than I should.
You're welcome to the barn.
Mr. Anderson.
I apologized for Josh's bad manners.
Oh. that's all right. ma'am.
He's just prideful.
Boy without a pride
ain't worth a damn. I mean... -
We get the meaning. Mr. Anderson.
Clear the table. girls.
I'll show Mr. Anderson the barn.
Ma. maybe I should fetch
Mr. Anderson a blanket.
Oh. I... I'll do that. Laura.
If I had known all this was gonna
come my way...
...just for getting creased by a little
old bullet. I'd have volunteered.
It's a beautiful night.
You know...
...I spent a good deal a time
sleeping under the sky.
It's funny. you never seem to
notice the stars when you're alone.
I know.
Mrs. Macahan.
Who's Claw?
How do you know about Claw?
Well. there's been a lot a mysterious
whispering going on between your girls.
Claw's a Shoshone chief.
and he's a very good friend.
He feels I need a man
to protect me...
...and he's dead set on me
marrying one of his braves.
Well. Mrs. Macahan. I don't want to
throw a spook into you...
...but that chief might be
interested in your welfare.
On the other hand. he might just be
trying to go one up on the Arapaho.
The Arapaho?
Yeah. Arapaho consider this
their land.
But if the Shoshone could get one
of their braves in here permanent...
...that would give them a good
foothold in Arapaho territory.
I'd just be mighty careful
if I were you.
You know. I'd like to stay on here
for. a couple of days.
It's just not for the cooking.
I'd like to. but I can't.
You're on the run. aren't you?
I might just be
in an awful big hurry.
I know the look.
My oldest son. Luke. is on the run.
He has a look he never had before.
Well. that's the look you get.
I keep running into men
that like to shoot guns.
And. sometimes. people get hurt.
Why you telling this to me?
I just want you to know how bad
it is before you I kiss you.
I've been a widow for three years.
Mr. Anderson.
I'm not about to take on just
any man passing through.
I never apologize for doing
the sensible thing.
Good night. Mr. Anderson.
Good night. ma'am.
Sleep sound.
Aren't you ever going to sleep?
Maybe not.
At least not till he's gone.
You're still fretting about that.
He's a stranger. Jessie! And we don't
know anything about him.
You invite him in here. you feed
him. you laugh at all his jokes.
It was because of you
he had to lay over.
I'm surprised he didn't invite himself
to sleep in the house...
...instead of the barn!
He seems all right to me.
The fact is. it's been kind of nice
having him around.
Haven't seen Laura get that
fluttery in a long time.
Did you see the way
he was looking at Ma?
And the way Ma was looking at him?
Well. what's so wrong with that?
It's hard on Ma here!
It can get lonely.
Mr. Anderson's just passing through.
There's no reason why Ma can't
enjoy him being here.
It's been good seeing her laugh.
She hasn't laughed like that
since Pa.
She has it coming to her. Josh...
...so you just quit your meddling.
Mr. Macahan. you should not
be about.
Your stitches are not healed.
Aw. I just got tired
of lying in that bed.
It's a lot nicer out here.
But it is too soon.
You are stubborn. Mr. Macahan.
Hey. why don't you call me Luke?
It is not permitted.
Well. what do you permit
around here?
Whatever is plain.
Well. then. they ought not
to permit you...
...because you sure aren't plain.
Please. Mr. Macahan.
you must not speak so.
Well you believe in truth. don't you?
That's just the plain truth.
If you were strong enough
to come here by yourself...
...I think before long you will be
well enough to leave.
Yeah. I guess so. Though the thought
don't pleasure me none.
Why not?
Well. you know. the more I see
of you people. the more I think...
...maybe you got the right idea
about things.
We live quietly and with God.
There's nothing wrong with that.
A man could do worse
than spend a lifetime here.
Some would tire of it.
Naw. I wouldn't.
I grew up on a farm.
not too different from this.
It's the only peace
and quiet I ever knew.
Why did you leave?
Well. we decided to come West...
...the war...
Always afraid we'd get caught up in it.
We were bound for Oregon when it hit.
Seven weeks out of Virginia
we were in the Nebraska Territory...
...we ran into a detachment
of cavalry.
Major Anderson. out of Fort Randall.
Zeb Macahan. major.
This here's my kin.
Zeb Macahan? Weren't you scouting
for Colonel Hyatt at Fort Laramie?
What you doing this far east?
Well. I was about to ask
you the same thing.
We were ordered back
to join General McDowell.
War's broke. Full force.
Where you coming from?
Virginie.
I reckon you left just in time.
Why do you say that. major?
Union forces have crossed through
Maryland to Virginia.
General McDowell's at Manassas
with 30.000 men.
General Beauregard with 20.000
coming up from the South.
Bull Run in the middle.
Bull Run?
It's where we come from.
We got family back there.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Well. good luck to you.
- Macahan.
- So long. major.
I guess after the major left...
...we were all thinking
the same thing.
We just couldn't leave the folks
back there in the middle of a battlefield.
You going back.
Laura. fetch me a sack
full of hardtack and dried beef.
- But...
- Go on now. girl. fetch it.
- Josh!
- Yes. sir.
Fetch me some ammunition.
Tim. I'll be the one going back.
You stay here with the family.
This is hard country. Zeb.
You can buck it.
Comes that they'll be needing
you more than me.
Long way to go if you expect to beat
the rebel troops.
I reckon I can make it
in three weeks.
Seven hundred miles. Tim.
to Bull Run.
I'm going. Zeb.
What about the folks?
What if they still won't leave?
Figure that when I get to it.
Pa. Good luck.
Zeb said he'd go back.
And you have a family here.
What happens to the children if you
don't ever come back?
Please. let Zeb go.
It's you I'm thinking of.
You stand a better chance out here
with Zeb than with me.
- Timothy!
- Now. Kate. listen to me.
Kate. out here I'm a tenderfoot.
Zeb can find game and water.
He can read when a storm's
brewing. he knows the Indians.
I don't know any of that.
Out here all alone I could...
I could get all of us killed.
Now Zeb's the one
that's got to stay.
You can understand that. can't you?
Here. Pa.
I remember my sister
bringing him food...
...and him giving half of it back
cause we were short of rations.
Pa. that's not near enough.
Laura. I'll make out.
Take care of them. Zeb.
I'll find you wherever you are.
We'll be here.
We're not gonna go on
another foot without you.
Next Spring we'll go on
to Oregon together.
Kate. you can't stay here.
He's right. Kate. We can't stay out
here for the winter.
Tim. I figure we're about
ten days from the Platte.
No. we'll go on there
and wait for you.
There's a town there. There's supposed
to be a telegraph coming in.
We'll leave word.
They'll be all right.
We'll be waiting for you. Pa.
It was the last time any
of us. except me...
...was to see Pa alive.
Yankees put him in uniform and...
...I found him by accident.
dying of wounds at Shiloh.
It is so hard to lose a parent.
I remember how I felt
when my mother died.
We must accept. Mr. Macahan...
...we are all God's servants.
God sure found a fine servant
when he picked you.
I'm pleased you think me worthy.
You're much more than worthy. Erika.
The bell... I must go now.
Glad to see you moving. Zeb.
I was afraid
I might have hit you too hard.
Oh... That you that hit me. huh?
Heh. heh. Well. you didn't
give me a whole lot of choice.
Look to me like you was about
to kill that sergeant.
Well... Oh...
I gotta admit I was...
I was trying. Where's he at?
He's on his way to the Fort Hospital.
You broke his jaw in three places.
How long you gonna keep me
locked up?
Ha! You ain't no prisoner. Zeb.
Bartender told me what happened.
Oh...
Not even no lectures
on disturbing the peace?
No. I think I'll leave that
up to the Army.
They're outside waiting for you.
Oh. now look. Ephraim.
before I talk to them...
...I gotta ask you something.
I'm looking for a young fella.
he's a boy about 23.
Good looking fella. about six foot.
I lost his trail here about...
...about 20 mile out.
I thought maybe
you might've seen him.
Real fast with a gun?
Fast enough.
Wouldn't also be a deserter
from the Army. would he?
Why?
Well. because an Army provost
marshal was here this morning.
He's looking too.
Where'd this here provost marshal
head for?
He's on his way to a Simonite
village out the Old Post Road.
What for?
Well. because a boy
answering the description...
...that both of you gave me
shot a man on that road ten days ago.
Did he kill him?
Yeah. Yeah. he was trying to protect
a Simonite girl...
...who was being roughed up
by a bunch of hooligans.
Do you think the boy could be
out at this here Simonite village?
So unlikely I didn't even look.
Where's my horse?
Right outside.
Thanks. Ephraim.
Any time at all. Zeb.
You Zeb Macahan?
That's right.
You're a dangerous man. Macahan.
I've got four troopers who swear
to the fact you tried to kill them.
Yeah. and they was trying to trade
an Indian scalp for whiskey.
A woman's at that.
Gonna try to arrest me. lieutenant.
you better get on with it.
I'm not here to press charges.
Macahan.
Do you know a mountain man
called Cully Madigan?
Cully Madigan? Why?
As of last week...
...Madigan had killed and scalped
over two dozen Arikara braves.
I don't believe you.
You can believe what you like.
Macahan.
But I got 50 crack troopers
camped outside of town.
And I've got order to find Madigan.
- And what are you gonna do then?
- I'll hang him.
Well. I don't think Cully Madigan's
been killing Arikara.
But I'll tell you something.
lieutenant. if he has...
...he ain't been doing it
without a damn good reason.
Then he is a friend of yours.
He's more than a friend.
When I picked him up. he didn't know
a beaver plew from a possum tail.
Then maybe we could work a deal.
Meaning?
I'll find Madigan. Mr. Macahan...
...but it might take me a while.
In the meantime.
if he keeps on killing...
...we might have an Indian war
on our hands.
Get to the point. boy.
The point is. he's your friend.
If you find him before I do.
you might save some lives...
...and keep Madigan from the gallows.
Son. there ain't a man alive's gonna
bring Cully Madigan in...
...if he don't wanna come.
But you could stop the killing.
All right. if I did.
would you call off the search?
I'm not sure I can.
I have my orders.
Then forget the whole thing.
Just to keep the record straight.
I'm gonna tell you something else.
You may get Cully
eventually. lieutenant...
...but before you do.
he'll kill more of your soldier boys...
...than he has Arikara.
All right. Macahan.
you have my word.
Now. do I have yours?
You'll go after Madigan immediately?
No. you don't.
All you got is my word I'll get
to it as quick as I can.
I got urgent business gotta be
took care of first.
Luke!
What is a provost marshal?
He's a kind of a law officer
for the Army. Why?
Because there is a provost marshal
here and he's looking for you.
Ah. Erika. let him take me.
I've caused you enough trouble already.
No. He is a violent man
and he has guns and...
We must hide you quickly!
Now. come with me.
Oh.
The shooting took place almost
two weeks ago...
...on the road to town.
Why would you believe
that he was here?
Because he protected
one of your women.
I think you might be protecting him.
But he killed a man.
If you know of our laws. you would
know that they're against violence.
Could we have among us a man
who had killed another?
Maybe not. brother.
But I'll look myself.
Take the horse. boy.
Now. stand out of the way...
...or we may have some of that
violence you're so dead set against.
Over there.
Why does this provost marshal
look for you?
I ran away from the Army because I...
...I couldn't stand the killing.
You left the war
because you could not kill?
Oh. Luke. I have great hopes for you.
That horse belong
to the provost marshal. son?
- Yes. sir.
- And the man he's looking for. is he here?
It is not permitted to say.
Original Rip By mstoll
Resync/Corrections By Chuck
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm